THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE.

    When awful darkness and silence reign
    Over the great Gromboolian plain,
        Through the long, long wintry nights;
    When the angry breakers roar
    As they beat on the rocky shore;
        When Storm-clouds brood on the towering heights
    Of the Hills of the Chankly Bore,--

    Then, through the vast and gloomy dark
    There moves what seems a fiery spark,--
        A lonely spark with silvery rays
        Piercing the coal-black night,--
        A Meteor strange and bright:
    Hither and thither the vision strays,
        A single lurid light.

    Slowly it wanders, pauses, creeps,--
    Anon it sparkles, flashes, and leaps;
    And ever as onward it gleaming goes
    A light on the Bong-tree stems it throws.
    And those who watch at that midnight hour
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as the wild light passes along,--
       "The Dong! the Dong!
      The wandering Dong through the forest goes!
        The Dong! the Dong!
      The Dong with a luminous Nose!"

        Long years ago
      The Dong was happy and gay,
    Till he fell in love with a Jumbly Girl
      Who came to those shores one day.
    For the Jumblies came in a sieve, they did,--
    Landing at eve near the Zemmery Fidd
        Where the Oblong Oysters grow,
      And the rocks are smooth and gray.
    And all the woods and the valleys rang
    With the Chorus they daily and nightly sang,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._"

    Happily, happily passed those days!
      While the cheerful Jumblies staid;
        They danced in circlets all night long,
        To the plaintive pipe of the lively Dong,
      In moonlight, shine, or shade.
    For day and night he was always there
    By the side of the Jumbly Girl so fair,
    With her sky-blue hands and her sea-green hair;
    Till the morning came of that hateful day
    When the Jumblies sailed in their sieve away,
    And the Dong was left on the cruel shore
    Gazing, gazing for evermore,--
    Ever keeping his weary eyes on
    That pea-green sail on the far horizon,--
    Singing the Jumbly Chorus still
    As he sate all day on the grassy hill,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve_."

    But when the sun was low in the West,
        The Dong arose and said,--
    "What little sense I once possessed
        Has quite gone out of my head!"
    And since that day he wanders still
    By lake and forest, marsh and hill,
    Singing, "O somewhere, in valley or plain,
    Might I find my Jumbly Girl again!
    For ever I'll seek by lake and shore
    Till I find my Jumbly Girl once more!"

        Playing a pipe with silvery squeaks,
        Since then his Jumbly Girl he seeks;
        And because by night he could not see,
        He gathered the bark of the Twangum Tree
          On the flowery plain that grows.
          And he wove him a wondrous Nose,--
        A Nose as strange as a Nose could be!

    Of vast proportions and painted red,
    And tied with cords to the back of his head.
        In a hollow rounded space it ended
        With a luminous Lamp within suspended,
            All fenced about
            With a bandage stout
            To prevent the wind from blowing it out;
        And with holes all round to send the light
        In gleaming rays on the dismal night

    And now each night, and all night long,
    Over those plains still roams the Dong;
    And above the wail of the Chimp and Snipe
    You may hear the squeak of his plaintive pipe,
    While ever he seeks, but seeks in vain,
    To meet with his Jumbly Girl again;
    Lonely and wild, all night he goes,--
    The Dong with a luminous Nose!
    And all who watch at the midnight hour,
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as they trace the Meteor bright,
    Moving along through the dreary night,--
       "This is the hour when forth he goes,
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!
        Yonder, over the plain he goes,--
            He goes!
            He goes,--
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!"

THE TWO OLD BACHELORS.

Two old Bachelors were living in one house;
One caught a Muffin, the other caught a Mouse.
Said he who caught the Muffin to him who caught the Mouse,--
"This happens just in time! For we've nothing in the house,
Save a tiny slice of lemon and a teaspoonful of honey,
And what to do for dinner--since we haven't any money?
And what can we expect if we haven't any dinner,
But to lose our teeth and eyelashes and keep on growing thinner?"

Said he who caught the Mouse to him who caught the Muffin,--
"We might cook this little Mouse, if we only had some Stuffin'!
If we had but Sage and Onion we could do extremely well;
But how to get that Stuffin' it is difficult to tell!"

Those two old Bachelors ran quickly to the town
And asked for Sage and Onion as they wandered up and down;
They borrowed two large Onions, but no Sage was to be found
In the Shops, or in the Market, or in all the Gardens round.

But some one said, "A hill there is, a little to the north,
And to its purpledicular top a narrow way leads forth;
And there among the rugged rocks abides an ancient Sage,--
An earnest Man, who reads all day a most perplexing page.
Climb up, and seize him by the toes,--all studious as he sits,--
And pull him down, and chop him into endless little bits!
Then mix him with your Onion (cut up likewise into Scraps),--
When your Stuffin' will be ready, and very good--perhaps."

Those two old Bachelors without loss of time
The nearly purpledicular crags at once began to climb;
And at the top, among the rocks, all seated in a nook,
They saw that Sage a-reading of a most enormous book.

"You earnest Sage!" aloud they cried, "your book you've read enough in!
We wish to chop you into bits to mix you into Stuffin'!"

But that old Sage looked calmly up, and with his awful book,
At those two Bachelors' bald heads a certain aim he took;
And over Crag and precipice they rolled promiscuous down,--
At once they rolled, and never stopped in lane or field or town;
And when they reached their house, they found (besides their want
                                                          of Stuffin'),
The Mouse had fled--and, previously, had eaten up the Muffin.

They left their home in silence by the once convivial door;
And from that hour those Bachelors were never heard of more.

THE PELICAN CHORUS.

    King and Queen of the Pelicans we;
     No other Birds so grand we see!
    None but we have feet like fins!
    With lovely leathery throats and chins!
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican Jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still

    We live on the Nile. The Nile we love.
    By night we sleep on the cliffs above;
    By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock walls grow dark and brown,

    Where the purple river rolls fast and dim
    And the Ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around,
    Stamping our feet with a flumpy sound,
    Opening our mouths as Pelicans ought;
    And this is the song we nightly snort,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Last year came out our Daughter Dell,
    And all the Birds received her well.
    To do her honor a feast we made
    For every bird that can swim or wade,--
    Herons and Gulls, and Cormorants black,
    Cranes, and Flamingoes with scarlet back,
    Plovers and Storks, and Geese in clouds,
    Swans and Dilberry Ducks in crowds:
    Thousands of Birds in wondrous flight!
    They ate and drank and danced all night,
    And echoing back from the rocks you heard
    Multitude-echoes from Bird and Bird,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Yes, they came; and among the rest
    The King of the Cranes all grandly dressed.
    Such a lovely tail! Its feathers float
    Between the ends of his blue dress-coat;
    With pea-green trowsers all so neat,
    And a delicate frill to hide his feet
    (For though no one speaks of it, every one knows
    He has got no webs between his toes).

    As soon as he saw our Daughter Dell,
    In violent love that Crane King fell,--
    On seeing her waddling form so fair,
    With a wreath of shrimps in her short white hair.
    And before the end of the next long day
    Our Dell had given her heart away;
    For the King of the Cranes had won that heart
    With a Crocodile's egg and a large fish-tart.
    She vowed to marry the King of the Cranes,
    Leaving the Nile for stranger plains;
    And away they flew in a gathering crowd
    Of endless birds in a lengthening cloud.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    And far away in the twilight sky
    We heard them singing a lessening cry,--
    Farther and farther, till out of sight,
    And we stood alone in the silent night!
    Often since, in the nights of June,
    We sit on the sand and watch the moon,--

    She has gone to the great Gromboolian Plain,
    And we probably never shall meet again!
    Oft, in the long still nights of June,
    We sit on the rocks and watch the moon,--
    She dwells by the streams of the Chankly Bore.
    And we probably never shall see her more.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!
